doc: add scorecard documentation (#942)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: doc/test-framework/scorecard.md

# Operator Scorecard

> The Operator Scorecard is a testing utility that is part of the `operator-sdk` binary that allows users to check the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Operator Scorecard is a testing utility included in the `operator-sdk` binary that guides users towards operator best practices
```

> correctness of their operators and CSVs to make sure they follow best practices. It is currently in its very early

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by checking the correctness of their operators and CSVs. While the Scorecard is in an early
```

stages and will gain more functionality and become more stable over time.

## How It Works

> The scorecard works by creating all of the required resources for the CRs and operator. For the operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scorecard works by creating all resources required by CRs and the operator. For the operator
```

deployment, it also adds another container to the operator's pod that is used to intercept calls to the API server,

> which can then be analyzed by the scorecard for various tests. The scorecard will also analyze the CR object itself,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which are analyzed by the scorecard for various tests. The scorecard will also analyze the CR object itself,
```

modifying spec fields and monitoring how the operator responds.

## Requirements

> - Operator made using the `operator-sdk` or using a config getter that supports reading from the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable (such as the `clientcmd` or `controller-runtime` config getters). This is required for the scorecard proxy to work correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An operator made using `operator-sdk` or a config getter that supports reading from the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable (such as the `clientcmd` or `controller-runtime` config getters). This is required for the scorecard proxy to work correctly.
```

- Resource manifests for installing/configuring the operator and custom resources (see the [Writing E2E Tests][writing-tests] doc for more information on the global and namespaced manifests)
- (For OLM tests) A CSV file for your operator

## Running the tests

The scorecard currently has a large amount of flags to allow for configuration of the scorecard tests. You can see

> all of the flags in the help text for the command in the [SDK CLI Reference][cli-reference] doc. Here, we will highlight a few important

Reviewer: ```suggestion
these flags in the `scorecard` subcommand help text, or in the [SDK CLI Reference][cli-reference] doc. Here, we will highlight a few important
```

flags:

- `--cr-manifest` - this is a required flag for the scorecard. This flag must point to the location of the manifest for the custom resource you are currently testing.

> - `--csv-path` - this flag is required is the OLM tests are enabled (the tests are enabled by default). This flag must point to the location of the CSV file for this resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `--csv-path` - this flag is required if the OLM tests are enabled (the tests are enabled by default). This flag must point to the location of the CSV file for this resource.
```

> - `--csv-path` - this flag is required if the OLM tests are enabled (the tests are enabled by default). This flag must point to the location of the CSV file for this resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--csv-path` - this flag is required if the OLM tests are enabled (the tests are enabled by default). This flag must point to the location of the operators' CSV file.
```

> - `--namespaced-manifest` - if set, this flag must point to a manifest file with all resources that run within a namespace. By default, the scorecard will combine `service_account.yaml`, `role.yaml`, `role_binding.yaml`, and `operator.yaml` from the `deploy` directory into a temporary manifest and use that as the namespaced manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--namespaced-manifest` - if set, this flag must point to a manifest file with all resources that run within a namespace. By default, the scorecard will combine `service_account.yaml`, `role.yaml`, `role_binding.yaml`, and `operator.yaml` from the `deploy` directory into a temporary manifest to use as the namespaced manifest.
```

> - `--global-manifest` - if set, this flag must point to all required resources that run globally (not namespaced). By default, the scorecard will combine all CRDs in the `deploy/crds` directory into a temporary manifest and use that as the global manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `--global-manifest` - if set, this flag must point to all required resources that run globally (not namespaced). By default, the scorecard will combine all CRDs in the `deploy/crds` directory into a temporary manifest to use as the global manifest.
```

- `--namespace` - if set, which namespace to run the scorecard tests in. If it is not set, the scorecard will use the default namespace of the current context set in the kubeconfig file.

> To run the tests, simply run the operator-sdk scorecard subcommand from you project root with the flags you want to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To run the tests, simply run the operator-sdk scorecard subcommand from your project root with the flags you want to
```

> To run the tests, simply run the operator-sdk scorecard subcommand from your project root with the flags you want to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the tests, simply run the `scorecard` subcommand from your project root with the flags you want to
```

use. For example:

```console
$ operator-sdk scorecard --cr-manifest deploy/crds/app_operator_cr.yaml --csv-path deploy/app_operator-0.0.2.yaml
```

## What Each Test Does

> There are currently 8 tests that the scorecard can run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 8 tests the scorecard can run:
```

### Basic Operator

#### Spec Block Exists

This test checks the Custom Resource that is created in the cluster to make sure that it has a spec block. This test
has a maximum score of 1.

#### Status Block Exists

This test checks the Custom Resource that is created in the cluster to make sure that it has a status block. This
test has a maximum score of 1.

#### Operator Action Are Reflected In Status

> This test makes modifications to each field in the Custom Resources spec block and then waits and verifies that the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test makes modifications to each field in the Custom Resources spec block, waits, then verifies that the
```

> operator updates the status block. This is somewhat prone to breakage as it can potentially change a spec field to an

Reviewer: The "This is somewhat..." and the following sentence should be a `Note: ...` below in this section. That'll also help us remember to remove it when we fix this issue.

invalid value. We plan to partially replace this test with user defined tests. This test has a maximum score of 1.

#### Writing Into CRs Has An Effect

This test reads the scorecard proxy's logs to verify that the operator is making `PUT` and/or `POST` requests to the
API server, indicating that it is modifying resources. This test has a maximum score of 1.

### OLM Integration

#### Owned CRDs Have Resources Listed

> This test makes sure that the CRDs listed in the Owned CRDs section of the CSV have a resources subsection. In the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test makes sure that the CRDs listed in the `owned` CRDs section of the CSV have a `resources` subsection. In the
```

> future, this test will verify that all resources modified by the operator are listed in the resources section. This

Reviewer: Use a `Note: ...` for "In the future ...".

test has a maximum score equal to the number of CRDs listed in the CSV.

#### CRs Have At Least 1 Example

> This test checks that the CSV has an `alm-examples` section in its annotations. This test has a maximum score of 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test checks that the CSV has an `alm-examples` section in its metadatas' annotations. This test has a maximum score of 1.
```
